---
title:
  'New Uppy 4.0 major: TypeScript rewrite, Google Photos, React hooks, and much
  more.'
date: 2024-07-03
authors: [aduh95, evgenia, mifi, murderlon]
image: 'https://uppy.io/img/blog/3.13-3.21/dog-coding-laptop-mars-christmas-tree-2.jpg'
slug: 'uppy-4.0'
published: false
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

Hi ha, this is some goofy introduction.

## TypeScript rewrite

In the year 2024 people expect excellent types from their libraries. We used to
author types separately by hand but they were often inconsistent or incomplete.
Now Uppy has been completely rewritten in TypeScript!

From now on you’ll be in safe hands when working with Uppy, whether it’s setting
the right options, building plugins, or listening to events.

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';

const uppy = new Uppy();

// Event name autocompletion and inferred argument types
uppy.on('file-added', (file) => {
	console.log(file);
});
```

One important thing to note are the new generics on `@uppy/core`.

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
// xhr-upload is for uploading to your own backend.
import XHRUpload from '@uppy/xhr-upload';

// Your own metadata on files
type Meta = { myCustomMetadata: string };
// The response from your server
type Body = { someThingMyBackendReturns: string };

const uppy = new Uppy<Meta, Body>().use(XHRUpload, {
	endpoint: '/upload',
});

const id = uppy.addFile({
	name: 'example.jpg',
	data: new Blob(),
	meta: { myCustomMetadata: 'foo' },
});

// This is now typed
const { myCustomMetadata } = uppy.getFile(id).meta;

await uppy.upload();

// This is strictly typed too
const { someThingMyBackendReturns } = uppy.getFile(id).response.body!;
```

Happy inferring!

## Merging the two AWS S3 plugins

We used to two separate plugins for uploading to S3 (and S3-compatible
services): `@uppy/aws-s3` and `@uppy/aws-s3-multpart`. They have different use
cases. The advantages of multipart uploads are:

- Improved throughput – You can upload parts in parallel to improve throughput.
- Quick recovery from any network issues – Smaller part size minimizes the
  impact of restarting a failed upload due to a network error.
- Pause and resume object uploads – You can upload object parts over time. After
  you initiate a multipart upload, there is no expiry; you must explicitly
  complete or stop the multipart upload.
- Begin an upload before you know the final object size – You can upload an
  object as you are creating it.

However, the downside is request overhead, as it needs to do creation, signing,
and completion requests besides the upload requests. For example, if you are
uploading files that are only a couple kilobytes with a 100ms roundtrip latency,
you are spending 400ms on overhead and only a few milliseconds on uploading.
This really adds up if you upload a lot of small files.

AWS, and generally the internet from what we found, tend to agree that **you
don’t want to use multipart uploads for files under 100MB**. But this sometimes
puts users of our libraries in an awkward position, as their end users may not
only upload very large files, or only small files. In this case a portion of
their users get a subpar experience.

---

<!-- TODO: /aws-s3-multipart link should be /aws-s3 (needs site changes) -->

We’ve merged the two plugins into `@uppy/aws-s3` with a new
[`shouldUseMultipart`](/docs/aws-s3-multipart/#shouldusemultipartfile) option!
By default it switches to multipart uploads if the file is larger than 100MB.
You can pass a `boolean` or a function to determine it per file.

## React hooks

People working with React are more likely to create their own user interface on
top of Uppy than those working with “vanilla” setups. Working with our pre-build
UI components is a plug-and-play experience, but building on top of Uppy’s state
with React primitives has been tedious.

To address this we’re introducing to new hooks: `useUppyState` and
`useUppyEvent`. Thanks to the TypeScript rewrite, we can now do powerful
inference in hooks as well.

### `useUppyState(uppy, selector)`

Use this hook when you need to access Uppy’s state reactively.

```ts
import { useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import { useUppyState } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const files = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.files);
const totalProgress = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.totalProgress);
// We can also get specific plugin state.
// Note that the value on `plugins` depends on the `id` of the plugin.
const metaFields = useUppyState(
	uppy,
	(state) => state.plugins?.Dashboard?.metaFields,
);
```

<!-- TODO: this permalink to State will get outdated. Maybe put it in a file we can link to? -->

You can see all the values you can access on the
[`State`](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/dab8082a4e67c3e7f109eacfbd6c3185f117dc60/packages/%40uppy/core/src/Uppy.ts#L156)
type. If you are accessing plugin state, you would have to look at the types of
the plugin.

### `useUppyEvent(uppy, event, callback)`

Listen to Uppy [events](/docs/uppy/#events) in a React component.

Returns an array of which the first item is an array of results from the event.
Depending on the event, that can be empty or have up to three values. The second
item is a function to clear the results.

Values remain in state until the next event (if that ever comes). Depending on
your use case, you may want to keep the values in state or clear the state after
something else happened.

```ts
import { useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import Transloadit from '@uppy/transloadit';
import { useUppyEvent } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function
// to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const [results, clearResults] = useUppyEvent(uppy, 'transloadit:result');
const [stepName, result, assembly] = results; // strongly typed

useUppyEvent(uppy, 'cancel-all', () => {
	// Handle event here.
});
```

## Google Photos

A long requested feature is finally here: Google Photos support!

:::info

Uppy can bring in files from the cloud with [Companion](/docs/companion/).

Companion is a hosted, standalone, or middleware server to take away the
complexity of authentication and the cost of downloading files from remote
sources, such as Instagram, Google Drive, and others.

This means a 5GB video isn’t eating into your users’ data plans and you don’t
have to worry about OAuth.

:::

<!-- TODO: video of the Google Photos plugin -->

[`@uppy/google-photos`](/docs/google-photos/) is a new plugin so you can use it
next to your existing [`@uppy/google-drive`](/docs/google-drive/) plugin.

## UX improvements for viewing remote files

When using [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) with any of our remote sources (such as
Google Drive) you use our internal `@uppy/provider-views` plugin to navigate and
select files.

We now made a handful of quality of life improvements for users.

<!-- TODO: video of the improvements-->

- **Folder caching**. When naviging in and out of folders, you now no longer
  have to wait for the same API call — you’ll see the results instantly.
- **Indeterminate checkmark states**. Before going into a folder we can’t know
  how many files it contains so checking it immediately will show a traditional
  checkmark. But when you go into a folder and you only select a subset of the
  files, we’ll now show the indeterminate checkmark for the folder when you
  navigate back out. Making it more clear you’re only uploading some of the
  files in that folder.
- **Reworked restrictions**. Uppy supports file
  [restrictions](/docs/uppy/#restrictions), such as max number of files and max
  file size. It’s now immediately clear in the UI when you are exceeding the max
  number of files you can select. The error notifications are now also more
  clear.
- **Shift-click multi-select fixes**. You can shift-click the checkboxes to
  select many files at once. This did not always work correctly and it also
  highlighted the files names, which we now improved.

We’re confident this turns our interface for remote sources into the most
advanced one out there. We’ve seen some competing libraries not even aggregating
results beyond the first page API limit of providers.

## Revamped options for `@uppy/xhr-upload`

Before the plugin had the options `getResponseData`, `getResponseError`,
`validateStatus` and `responseUrlFieldName`. These were inflexible and too
specific. Now we have hooks similar to `@uppy/tus`:

- `onBeforeRequest` to manipulate the request before it is sent.
- `shouldRetry` to determine if a request should be retried. By default 3
  retries with exponential backoff. After three attempts it will throw an error,
  regardless of whether you returned `true`.
- `onAfterResponse` called after a successful response but before Uppy resolves
  the upload.

You could for instance use them to refresh your auth token when it expires:

```js
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import XHR from '@uppy/xhr-upload';

let token = null;

async function getAuthToken() {
	const res = await fetch('/auth/token');
	const json = await res.json();
	return json.token;
}

new Uppy().use(XHR, {
	endpoint: '<your-endpoint>',
	// Called again for every retry too.
	async onBeforeRequest(xhr) {
		if (!token) {
			token = await getAuthToken();
		}
		xhr.setRequestHeader('Authorization', `Bearer ${token}`);
	},
	async onAfterResponse(xhr) {
		if (xhr.status === 401) {
			token = await getAuthToken();
		}
	},
});
```

Checkout the `@uppy/xhr-upload` [docs](/docs/xhr-upload/) for more info.

## Simpler configuration for `@uppy/transloadit`

To get started with `@uppy/transloadit` you would configure
[`assemblyOptions`](/docs/transloadit/#assemblyoptions) with your auth key,
template ID, and other optional values. `assemblyOptions` can be an object or a
function, which is called per file, which returns an object:

```json
{
	"params": {
		"auth": { "key": "key-from-transloadit" },
		"template_id": "id-from-transloadit",
		"steps": {
			// Overruling Template at runtime
		},
		"notify_url": "https://your-domain.com/assembly-status"
	},
	"signature": "generated-signature",
	"fields": {
		// Dynamic or static fields to send along
	}
}
```

When you go to production you always want to make sure to set the `signature`.
**Not using
[Signature Authentication](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/signature-authentication/)
can be a security risk**. Signature Authentication is a security measure that
can prevent outsiders from tampering with your Assembly Instructions.

This means the majority of implementers will write something like this, as
recommended:

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import Transloadit, { type AssemblyOptions } from '@uppy/transloadit';

new Uppy().use(Transloadit, {
	async assemblyOptions(file) {
		const response = await fetch('/transloadit-params');
		return response.json() as AssemblyOptions;
	},
});
```

But now you are making a request to your backend for _every file_, while the
response likely remains the same, unless you are setting dynamic `fields` per
file.

**This has now been improved to**:

- only call `assemblyOptions()` once.
- `fields` is for global variables in your
  [template](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/templates/).
- all metadata on your files is automatically sent along to Transloadit. This
  will end up in `file.user_meta` for you to dynamically access in your template
  _per file_.

You can read more about Assembly Variables in the
[docs](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/assembly-variables/).

## Companion

### Streaming uploads by default

Streaming uploads are now the default in in Companion. This comes with greatly
improved upload speeds and allows uploading up to hundreds of gigabytes without
needing a large server storage. We found that this improves speeds by about 37%
for a Google Drive upload of a 1 GB file
([source](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/4046#issuecomment-1235697937)).
This feature was also available before but we wanted to have more real world
usage before setting it as the default.

With streaming upload disabled, the whole file will be downloaded first. The
upload will then start when the download has completely finished.

When streaming upload is enabled, Companion will start downloading the file from
the provider (such as Google Drive), while at the same time starting the upload
to the destination (such as Tus), and sending every chunk of data consecutively.

For more information, see the [Companion docs](/docs/companion/).

### New required option `corsOrigins`

As a security measure, we now require the
[`corsOrigins`](/docs/companion/#corsorigins) option to be set.

It serves two purposes, it sets the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header and it
sets the origin for `window.postMessage()`, which is needed to communicate the
OAuth token from the new tab you used to log-in to a provider back to Companion.

## And more

The 4.0 release contained over 170 contributions, many too small to mention, but
together resulting in Uppy continuing to grow and improve. We closely listen to
the community and are always looking for ways to improve the experience.

Since our last blog post other (non-breaking) changes have also been released.

<!-- TODO: add some minor but interesting changes -->
