---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Transloadit Google OAuth2

Google has been tightening their grip on external integrations and apps recently
by restricting apps and requiring partners to answer ever more complex security
assessments. This has affected Transloadit which provides the Uppy plugins for
Google Drive and Google Photos through our hosted Companion, and thus also
affecting our customers. We have been trying to keep up with Google’s validation
requirements (that have to be renewed every year), but as a small company we
eventually realised that we cannot afford this in the long term. For this reason
Google blocked our app, and this is the reason why our customers using
_Transloadit’s_ Google OAuth2 app ID (and their end users) are now presented
with an error like `Google hasn't verified this app` or `This app is blocked`
from Google. We simply cannot guarantee that our integration with external
providers will work indefinitely, and now this has proven itself. This is also
the reason we have recommended customers to use their own credentials, as the
Transloadit’s app credentials were mostly meant to be used for POC purposes and
as a way to get started with Uppy without much initial friction.

## Solutions

### Option 1: Use your own OAuth2 credentials

One option is to continue using the existing plugins
[`@uppy/google-drive`](https://uppy.io/docs/google-drive/) and
[`@uppy/google-photos`](https://uppy.io/docs/google-photos/). However you then
have to go through the Google validation process yourself. You can then use Uppy
with Transloadit’s Companion server using your own OAuth2 credentials. Note that
this validation process could take up to 8 weeks (according to Google). See
[this article](https://uppy.io/docs/transloadit/#use-with-companion) for how to
setup your own credentials for use with Transloadit’s hosted Companion server.

### Option 2: Migrate to the Google Picker plugin(s)

As many companies can’t handle the extensive requirements of getting the token
with these restrictive scopes, we started work on `@uppy/google-drive-picker`
and `@uppy/google-photos-picker` in the end of 2024 and have now released these
plugins (december 2024), which instead use the Google Picker UI to significantly
reduce the verification process. The downside is less control, inability to
select folders, downloading an additional bundle, and a less consistent user
experience.

You may also use Transloadit’s Companion server for the Google Picker plugins if
you don’t want to run your own Companion server. See the new plugins
[`@uppy/google-drive-picker`](https://uppy.io/docs/google-drive-picker/) and
[`@uppy/google-photos-picker`](https://uppy.io/docs/google-photos-picker/) for
how to get started.

See also

- [Similar story 1](https://ia.net/topics/our-android-app-is-frozen-in-carbonite)
- [Similar story 2](https://blog.panic.com/end-of-the-road-for-google-drive-and-transmit/)
